I have been asked to record my experiences, my wartime experiences of World War II.
Who am I? My name is Dennis Tidswell. I live in Pembroke.
I'm now 98 and a half years old, and unfortunately that wonderful human faculty of memory does begin to fade.
So before it goes completely, I will make every endeavor to talk about those experiences, something that I hadn't done before.
I think to appreciate my feelings during the wartime, and my experiences, it would help a little to go back to my childhood days to know what you're dealing with.
I was brought up in a small village called Gindros, which is about three and a half miles outside of Swansea.
My father was a member of the Swansea Police Force.
He, during the First World War, was in the Grenadier Guards and rose through the ranks and at the end of that war was granted a commission.
Now he always told me that in the forces, if you wanted a commission, you needed a private income, which was something I didn't have when I came to the point of becoming a member of the forces.
During my young days, society in Forrest Falk and indeed the whole of Wales was passing through a very deeply religious fervor.
There were indeed two fractions of society. There were the deeply religious and then there were the otherwise non-believers who had a very different kind of life.
But my life was church three times on a Sunday and the whole area was literally covered in Welsh chapels with names like Calvaryan, Bethany, Zion, Sarum, Teroselam, Hebrum.
Then there was one established church, which I think was called the Church of Hysard in those days. Church in Wales hadn't appeared on the scene.
And then there were the other denominations of the Gospel Hall, the Baptists, the Homeward Witnesses, Salvation Army and the Congregational.
And it was to the Congregational Church that I was sent three times every Sunday.
So here we had this young lad brought up very strictly in a very religious atmosphere.
I vivid recollections of being taken to the largest Welsh chapel called Calvaryan in nearby Forrest Falk.
I stood I suppose about almost three feet tall at several inches of age amongst a congregation of probably, let's say 400 or more people,
giving full voice to the bread of heaven, which literally lifted the roof and to me was almost a terrifying experience.
There was tremendous noise. However, that's just an aside.
The other factions of society of course were the pub goers and the billiard halls and the club goers.
Welsh soup was dry in those days. There were no drinks on a Sunday in pubs, but you could get a drink in a club.
But there were two very distinct factions of society.
So I can't say I had a particularly good education.
I wasn't able to take the eleven plus. I had as a young man a labors facial tick, which set me back a bit in that my parents took me everywhere to try and cure this.
I have distinct memories of being taken to someone called a phrenologist who made an analysis of what may be wrong with you by the bumps in your head.
Anyway, by the time I had come round to about 14 years of age, that tick unfortunately disappeared.
My interests mainly were swimming, cycling, tennis and amateur dramatics.
When the war broke out in 1939, I soon found myself somewhat on my own because a lot of my friends who were slightly older had joined the forces in one way or another.
I was now an insurance clerk with a company called the London Shores.
I had made up for my poor education by evening studies and getting various certificates for mathematics and accountancy, and I was studying insurance examinations.
My favorite hobbies were photography and radio.
My father was a keen radio amateur and in the early 30s we were just coming out of the crystal set and moving into wireless sets made with thermionic valves.
So he had taught me how to build a wireless set.
So one day I took it into my head that I would like to join the Royal Air Force.
Another one of my hobbies was aerial modeling and flying model airplanes.
So one particular morning I would go to the RAF recruiting office at the bottom of Page Street in Swansea and sat in front of this group of these RAF officers.
I said, what age are you my boy? I'm 17. Come back when you're 18.
As I passed the sergeant at the entrance way, he said, you're 18 next week, aren't you boy?
I said, no, no, it's next July. You're 18 next week, aren't you boy?
So I got the message and I kept...
Two or three weeks later I found myself sitting in front of this group of RAF officers at the recruitment center.
They go into your educational background and then ask about your past times and hobbies.
When I mentioned that I was interested in wireless and could build a wireless set, they cottoned onto that one and talked very much about that.
I wanted to train very much as a pilot.
That was the whole object in joining the Air Force, to learn to fly and to be a pilot.
But they said that why wouldn't I join now as a radio operator?
And then at some later date I could quite easily remaster and train as a pilot.
But things didn't quite turn out that way.
A radio operator had nothing to do with flying at all, I discovered.
It was really very high frequency intercommunication between ground and aircraft.
So it was all different to what I intended, but I went along with that.
And in a matter of a couple of months really I was called up.
Apparently they were very short of radio operators at that particular time.
So here we had this somewhat naive young man leaving home for the very first time to go out into the big wide world.
My mother cried, my father said, I'll make a man out of him.
And off I went and started at Uxbridge, which was a recruiting centre.
And then on to Padgate, in terms of language.
I seldom have ever heard the F word. That was certainly not part of the vocabulary.
In July 1940 I turned up at the recruiting centre at Uxbridge amongst quite a few others, hundreds of people.
We were put into groups of about 50 and we were sworn in.
And here you agree to obey orders and keep to the King's regulations.
So no one had ever read them. And of course an allegiance to the sovereign.
And once you had sworn those orders you were no longer a civilian, you were now a member of HM forces.
And indeed this was a defining moment which put you firmly in your place.
I was now an Aircraftman, second class.
And we were then directed to some tents which were on grassland between some rather nice looking brick buildings.
But they were not to be our sleeping place. We were shown where we were to sleep.
And that was in a tent on a straw palliats which was damp and musty and smelly.
With one blanket and a sausage, a canvas bag, I suppose about 9 inches in diameter.
And that was your pillow and that was where you were to sleep. Henceforth you were to wash and shave in cold water.
Now this indeed was a second part of the culture shock. However that was only to last about 4 or 5 days.
And we were then put into a billet as it was called, which was like a Nissan hut with cast iron pipes.
Fortunately it was July so there was a reasonable temperature.
And it contained a number of steel bed frames with the wire springs across. And three were called biscuits.
And they were the mattresses you slept on divided into three sections.
And two blankets, rather coarse things, made you scratch your niche. And the sausage as a pillow.
And that was your sleeping quarter.
There was a corporal's room at the end and the corporal was invariably a regular airman.
And the chairman sort of shat because he would wake you up in the morning very politely.
Come on here sods, wakey, wakey, get your hands out your cocks and get moving and stand by your beds at 8 o'clock.
Very friendly sort of, you know, got a greeting.
Anyway, when you stood by your beds you were taught how to stand to attention for the only officer who came out, looked you up and down from bed to bed.
And I felt this business of being stood to attention not very much to my liking.
And you were usually commanded to stand to attention in the presence of an officer.
And the command of stand to attention is being like placed in an invisible straitjacket with your arms bound to your sides and your legs immobilized and your brain literally numbed by the aura of class distinction.
I found this was an ultimate humiliation and I felt degradation.
Now they put you in your place and at their mercy more move or twit an eyebrow at your peril.
However, there was no going back.
I had sworn allegiance to a sovereign, one I had never met or ever likely to, yet under whom I was prepared to sacrifice the one life I had.
So it behoved me now, I felt, to accept my surroundings and I volunteered for it, so just get on with it.
And I think that was the right move because otherwise life could have been very miserable indeed.
Anyway, at Uxbridge you then came to being kitted out.
Kitted out. You're saying farewell to your civilian clothes and you're now about to don a uniform.
In this great big hall, loads of tables and piles of clothes, you woke up to the counter, height five foot two, and could fly at you a tunic.
Before that you'd been given a white kit bag. It stood about three foot high, a little bit of foot in diameter, and for the time being you simply put all this uniform into this kit bag.
So it came flying at you at the rate of knots. Length of inside length? 27. Okay.
All this clothing, shirt, dress, pants came hurling at you and then the one final thing, a pair of boots.
I never wore boots in my life, but I was about to learn what it was like because at Uxbridge you were taken out on to the parade ground by the drill sergeant, who was another very polite gentleman.
I won't repeat a lot of the way he described us, but anyway, marching back up and down, the boots were chuffing my ankles, and red wool legs around my ankles.
You were given a rifle now. What did the rifle have to do with the RAF? I don't know, but of course you had to learn the appropriate drill.
So we were given a Lee-Enfield rifle, no bullets, and all the cleaning kit and the gear, and trained how to use it in marching and on parade.
When I turned came to do a guard duty at night, you present yourself with a guard room, and they tell you you take your sentry post at the station entrance, and obviously you challenge any on-comer who goes on.
So I said, well, where are the bullets? They said, give me those bullets. So you were guarded in the place, but you didn't have any bullets, but now all that stage passed, and eventually they knocked us into shape,
and we were able, I think, to march reasonably well.
Before we leave Atbridge, there's a couple of other recollections popped up, and I'm not really sure whether I should include them, because things have got to be so politically correct in this year 2021.
But way back in 1940, I think I should really tell it like it was, and in no way dress it up, but we were all lined up for ATT inoculation, anti-tetanus and typhoid.
So there stood two men in white coats, I presume one was a doctor, I don't know, and on this high table were three kidney-shaped white enamel dishes with a blue rim around the top.
They were filled with methylated spirits, and there were two rather large needles, the actual needle of which was not like the fine one that there is nowadays, it was really like a very fine nail, really.
Anyway, there were hundreds of blokes lined up, there were two people, you came along, got it jabbed into your arm, and then that particular needle was thrown into the dish of mass where the other man rinsed it out and refilled it, and in sequence.
So those two needles really injected hundreds of men. That was the ATT inoculation.
And then one day we were all marched up to this large room and all seated down in front of a screen, cinema fashion, and we were shown a film about venereal disease.
Now, looking at ages 18 to 25ish, the likes of me would never have had any sexual education at all, either school, college, home, anywhere.
So this film showed the graphic detail, the horrors that had gone over here, and in the end it showed this chubby, rather like a violent, epileptic fit, who was in the advanced stages of her life.
In the stages of syphilatic locomotor attack here.
But at least this had served the purpose of sex for quite a while, but at least it had taught most of us something of which we had precious little knowledge before.
And then to round this off, the real classic was the FFI parade. Now, I've no idea what an FFI parade was, but we soon found out you stood in a long line in order to drop your trousers and roll up your shirt and expose your genitals.
I thought, hmm, then we realized we were free from infection inspection. Wonderful to lady doctor, but then there weren't many lady doctors in those days, and if it had been the sight of almost hundreds of willies, it would have given us a nervous breakdown.
But anyway, along comes this doctor, I presume, medical officer, and he's carrying like a musical conductor's baton.
And so, anyhow again, he sticks it under someone's willy and makes a bit of a close examination and sees it well done.
So that was the point at which I think I should end my description of Oxbridge and then move on to the next posting, which was Padgate.
I think I should explain at this point, I'm taking my dictation from recollections from my RAF record sheet, which I obtained from the RAF records office in Gloucester,
way back in March 98, and things are getting a little bit hazy here. I'll read you a letter. Thank you for your letter dated February 98.
I'm sorry to have to tell you that at this late date only a very brief record of your service in the Royal Air Force is now held at the RM Headquarters personnel and training command.
This record was compiled at the time of your service and contains very little detail of your postings and movements at that time.
However, I have enclosed a photograph of your service taken from the remaining record, which I hope will be of interest to you.
Now here in the record, after Padgate, there is a gap, and it says number one wing, sing 6RC, which I take to be a recruiting center.
The next posting in September 40 is to the RAF station at Tuxford, and I have some recollections of that.
But between leaving Padgate and arriving at Tuxford, we must have acquired the necessary skills to operate this VHF radio system, because Tuxford was the operational headquarters at that time, I think, of number 12 group.
I have a recollection of looking up and seeing the old dog right, and of course Tuxford played a very active part in the Battle of Britain.
But be that as it may, I only stayed at Tuxford for something like a month or so, and now I get posted in October 40 to the RAF Signal School at Cranwell in Lincolnshire.
Now Cranwell in Lincolnshire was the RAF training college, and I learned another aspect of radio operating which did interest me very much, and that was called VHF-DF, very high frequency direction finding.
And it was a means of radio communication which enabled us to establish the position for our own aircraft, radar being very much in its infancy at that stage.
So fighter command in particular relied on VHF-DF, which consisted of three units, something like 40 or so miles apart, from which you drew a line on a bearing taken on their equipment.
And formed what was known as a cocked hat, and in that cocked hat was the position of our own aircraft.
Radio transmission on VHF at ground levels was optical, but air to ground and ground to air was very clear reception.
And sitting, listening out, which we had to do for very long periods at a time, was just listening to a quiet sort of motion, like a pshhhhhh.
And the equipment was set up in wooden towers, and the beauty of all this was those towers were generally well away from any air force establishment.
It was a little unit on its own, and most times the RAF personnel operating it were in civilian pilots.
So to be away from RAF military discipline and operating in one of these units appealed to me very much.
So I set my stall out for that at Cranwell, and over a period of, let me see, something like a month or six weeks, qualified as a VHF-DF operator.
I was then sent to a station in Curtin and Lindsay in Lincolnshire. That was in November 1940.
Now all this time I was still radio operated on the ground when really I joined this outfit to learn to fly and to be a member of air crew.
I have a recollection of going to Cardington and sitting in front of this panel of RAF officers.
Now according to my records that took place in May 1941. This was a selection board for air crew.
And I see according to my record it reads, accepted for training as pilot, observer, wireless RPG, 8-5-1941.
So from that date onward I was waiting to go for air crew training.
But then out of the blue at Curtin and Lindsay along comes a sergeant and says, report to so and so and you're being posted abroad.
Well now I can't go abroad, I'm waiting for air crew training. You're being posted abroad.
And she says, can I have an interview with the commanding officer? You are being posted abroad.
So I thought, what the hell with this? So I took it into my head to go straight up to the commanding officer's office.
So leading aircast man Tidwell goes into the station commander's office and says, I want to see the commander.
Well upon I was pounced upon by two sergeants, took me by one arm either side, knocked my cap off and folk marched me backwards out of the office.
Then I found myself on the charge for insubordination. So the following day I appeared in front of the station commander and offered my apologies.
And said, but I was listed for air crew training. Why was I being sent abroad?
He said, we too have to do as we are told. You, I understand, are a radio DF operator and wherever you're going they seem to be urgently needed.
So I'm sorry, but you are going abroad. And were it not for that fact, you would be on a very serious charge.
And now you would be spending your time in the glass house, which was the RF term for being in prison.
Anyway, be that as it may, the next thing, I was kitted out for fallen service.
Coggy shirt, ordinary vest, tin hat, respirator, and now a backpack, a blanket and a ground sheet.
So you rolled your ground sheet around a blanket like a long sausage.
And then you strapped it in the form of three parts of a square on the back, around your backpack.
It all looked a bit like a French legionnaire, but we didn't have that neck protector like the Frenchman had.
But a very similar appearance. And of course all this had to be packed in this extra backpack.
And by now the law to carry a boat was the winter gear. But there was one bright spot about all this.
You no longer wore boots abroad, you had shoes. The other ranks had leather shoes.
The officers had hush puppies and cotton socks, whereas ranks had thick woolen socks.
And hush puppies, which we nicknamed brothel creepers.
And the trouble with the woolen sock abroad, I'd come to later.
I found myself boarding a train for Gunnock, way up north.
And on the train we were really like sardines in a tin. Packed, packed, packed.
It was quite an unpleasant journey really.
But anyway, at Gunnock, or Gunnock, we then went aboard various ships.
At Gunnock, some 1750 personnel, mainly army and probably about a third of that Royal Air Force,
They boarded a ship called the Leinster. The Leinster was a British and Irish ferry boat that in normal times crossed the Irish Sea on a daily basis.
And she'd been taken over by the Department of Transport.
And the Leinster, in fact, she turned out to be the smallest of the convoy in which she pruned herself.
She just weighed 4,300 tons, while the larger merchant ship was almost 11,000 tons.
For the historian, this was called Operation Substance. That is in July 1941.
The naval coverage was quite extensive. The Nelson, the Banksman, the Edinburgh, Manchester, Arathusa, and something like seven other destroyers.
Now, none of us were aware at that time where we were bound.
But when we got aboard, we were asked if we would form marches.
The march was to be placed at intervals all around the ship. And on any sightings, they were to pass voice-wise back to the bridge.
The accommodation, I can't really remember much about the food, but what does strike me, I remember, was quite a bit of food.
I've got tape over. Where were we? Back on the Leinster.
Well, the Leinster, there were 1,700 troops aboard, a mixture of army and air force, air force about 300 or so, I would say.
I can't remember much about the food. Sleep in accommodation, we slept in hammocks. They were all slung between all the various loads of pipes that there are on ships.
And one would look and see all these lines of hammocks swinging away. A hammock is a bit tricky to get into on land, but on a rolling ship it tends to be a bit tricky.
And the Leinster did roll. She didn't have any stabilizers. And we were at this time forming and maneuvering into a convoy.
The convoy for the benefit of the historian was to be known as Operation Substance in July 1941.
There were some seven odd merchant men and quite a number of naval vessels.
The naval vessels were the Nielsen, the Maxman, the Edinburgh, the Manchester, the Arathuja, and something like seven destroyers.
This operation I learned after the war, actually, when I looked up the records, was to relieve Malta, Malta being under seizure at that time, and was desperately in need of practically everything.
And the power to be such hammer on this convoy must get through.
However, we were back on the Leinster. We set sail. We were in a westerly direction for probably half a day.
And then we turned south, and I suppose after about 36 or so hours, we were told to change into our tropical gear, which we did, of course.
During this time, one of our radio operators, a crew, a man called Dick Watson, who was a colored gentleman from Jamaica, who had come over to the UK at his own expense just to join the World Air Force.
I had a great respect for him, but he had fallen somehow, an injury in his ankle. So in the ship's medical quarters, they'd put on a light plaster. He could just hobble around.
So he needed to be assisted in and around, getting in and out of his hammock, etc.
However, we are now in our tropical gear, an enormous number of white knees, and we're heading south.
And then we next thing we find we're into the Strait of Gibraltar, and we arrive at Gibraltar.
We were given surely, strangely enough, and I have recollections of going to a pub in Bell Lane in Gibraltar.
And there was beer available in those days, and we all got a bit merry and went back aboard and got into a bunk and fell asleep.
But the next thing we know, after probably about five or six hours, the engine started up and we were on the way.
And quite clearly we were moving on for the rest of our voyage.
But all of a sudden there was one enormous bang, and the ship shook and didn't completely turn on its side, but it turned over at a very angle.
I can't remember what I said. It leaned onto the port side, I think it was.
But then again, 18 years ago, it's a bit vague on detail, but we were down below, a couple of decks down.
And we found ourselves in almost complete darkness, a couple of chinks of light coming through.
But the gangways and the stairways were just at a bit of an angle and obviously in the almost dark.
This was a rather frightening situation, that you were trapped down below and certainly no easy access to the upper deck.
And we also had Dick Watson with his injured ankle.
Anyway, we could hear a lot of noise and banging and bumping up on the main deck.
But when we eventually did get through into daylight, the whole place really was pandemonium, really.
I got onto the port side because it didn't seem possible to launch lifeboats on the starboard side.
But I never heard an order to abandon ship, but that's clearly what was being done.
Because when I got down to the ship's rail, there were seven lifeboats, six of them absolutely chock-a-bang full.
And the seventh pretty well full.
And so they got Dick Watson aboard the lifeboat.
And from the ship's rail, I then jumped into the stern part of the last lifeboat,
at a distance of about six or seven feet, and you go down with a bit of a bump.
But anyway, I'm in the stern end of the seventh tightly packed lifeboat.
Now, it's clear there was a mist just lifting.
And I could see on the mainland a pillowbox type of thing with these soldiers.
And clearly the reason for the evacuation was that no one wanted to be detained in Spain.
Mr. Franco was very friendly with Mr. Hitler.
And to be his guest for the remainder of the war didn't appeal at all.
But anyway, the lifeboats were all put in a line and collected by a line.
And the one lifeboat had an engine.
And it was about three-quarters of a mile out in the bay at sea.
It was a naval craft. I think it was a destroyer, but I'm not sure.
But we were a chug, chug, chug out to the destroyer, who then put us in tow.
And when he got underway, of course all the lifeboats were lifted up.
Anyway, next thing we know, out of the mist comes the Rock of Gibraltar.
And I had my pocket camera in my pocket.
And to this day I've got some photographs that I took from the lifeboat on the Rock of Gibraltar.
When we got to Gibraltar, we were put aboard a ship called the Louis Pasteur,
which is obviously of French origin.
And she was a very, very different kettle of fish.
We were able to have a shower, a shower the like of which I'd never seen in my life or even heard of.
Instead of the water throwing down from the shower head, it came from pipes on the side.
I think it was called a needle shower, but the jet of water was horizontal from the side, from your feet right up to your head.
And that indeed was very refreshing.
Alongside it was the French idea of a gen's toilet, because it was a long, wide, two-foot wide plank of wood,
about 20, 25 feet long, and about every five feet a hole was cut.
And that was where you did your ablutions. You just sat down, had a chat.
The flushing system was quite unique.
There was something like an 8-inch pipe at one end, which was constantly flowing, a strong flow of water.
So there was a thorough flushing of 24 hours a day.
I can't remember much about the food.
I can remember going down way down below into the engine room and meeting Scottish engineers who, to my astonishment, were drinking gin.
I was introduced to gin. I'd never tasted gin in my life, until I met these chaps.
Anyway, I think I've probably transmitted enough for this time, so we'll leave it there, and we'll come back to the moment when I'm aboard the Louis Pasteur in the harbor at Gibraltar.
We are now in Gibraltar, and I think at this stage, I assume the situation in the Mediterranean might well be appropriate.
The mid being a completely landlocked sea, we are in Gibraltar, but to the north there is Spain, France, Italy, Greece, islands of Kofu and Crete,
all occupied by hostile forces, also North Africa under the control of Rommel.
So the only British place, of course, was Malta and Gujol.
So quite clearly, if you're traveling east, that is your office and destination.
We weren't officially told that, but that was the general buzz amongst the troops.
So from the Louis Pasteur, we were transferred to a warship called the Hermione.
The Hermione was a modern fast cruiser of the Diado class.
Unfortunately, she had a very short lifetime because she was commissioned in March 1941 and sunk in June 1942.
So she was torpedoed with a loss of about 700 miles.
But she was actually a very fast ship.
Its speed was 32 knots, its range was 1500 miles, and its armament was state of the art for the day.
It was absolutely bristling with various guns of all sorts.
It also had torpedo tubes.
At this time Malta was under siege, undergoing very heavy bombing.
I think I'll just read a very short paragraph written by an historian.
Defense against such attacks and against the regular air raids were a constant drain on ammunition.
Moreover, the 1,750 troops and RAF support personnel, now in Gibraltar,
as a result of the grounding of the Leinster, were not only urgently required on Malta, but an embarrassment where they were.
To maintain stocks of munitions between major convoys and to push through the stranded soldiers and airmen,
Operation Steyr was run from the west.
The designated ships sailing from Gibraltar were Arathusa, Abani, and the Maxman,
each of which embarked a quota of passengers and cases of aviation spirit, ammunition, food stamps.
The Maxman's mine decks were capacious compared with available spaces on the two cruisers,
where every water closet and bathroom was stacked with cases, drums, cartons of food.
Now, when we went aboard the Abani, the skipper piped up and welcomed us aboard and said,
he said, well now on passage I can feed you, but I've got problems with water.
I can only allocate you a pint per person per day. And that is that.
We slept against the sides of the ship's hull.
As we were, you didn't undress, you just slept where you could, kept your tin hat and respirator handy.
And I didn't realize it at that particular moment, but I suppose I was about to receive what you might call my baptism of fire
and realize the real horrors of war.
On board the Abani, as with the convoy, you could volunteer for duties.
Having the experience of being down below when the ship ran aground in Algeciras Bay,
I didn't fancy the idea of bombing at torpedo rates when I was down below.
So I volunteered to work on deck and I found myself passing boxes of ammunition to the crew gunners of the point bomb guns.
I suppose we were about two days out, something like that.
The ship was traveling quite fast when a ship of some 7,000 odd tons was going along at 32 miles an hour.
You know you're moving. But suddenly the clocks and goes, action stations, action stations.
I hadn't really had time to get up on deck before they typed out,
Stand by to ram, stand by to ram. And there was a terrific crash. The ship shutters from stem to stem and then carried on sailing.
It turned out we had rammed an Italian submarine called the Tambien which was charging its batteries at dawn on the surface.
And the following ships in our wake felt the contact of the sub underneath their hooves.
And the Hermione sustained a gash in its bow. But I suddenly realized what a terrible way to die in a submarine being rammed by another ship.
And that's what I mean when I say the horrors of war became apparent to me.
We were now a couple of days into the passage and we were finding it rather hot in the tail,
We were very long from the UK and I had no time to acclimatize and the bed in July was hot and below decks we hadn't changed our clothing.
We stayed and hadn't even taken our clothes off for a couple of days and we were like short engine at 10.
It was rather uncomfortable. But anyway, we must be now approaching the real hot spots of the passage.
We were coming up to the Sicilian Straits in the Marus and of course in Sicily we now had the Luftwaffe and the Italian Aeronautica.
The Italians did their bombing from high level but were very accurate really.
The Germans had the Ju-88s and their Stukas and we were coming to well within their range.
I had volunteered to assist in passing the ammunition boxes to the pom-pom guns on the deck and the Klaxon sounded action stations.
Now was my baptism of fire because we came under air attack mainly. Bombs were all around, fortunately missing the ship.
The ship must have been doing a zigzag course because the deck never stayed still. The angle seemed to alter all the time.
The noise was absolutely terrific. The engine noise, the ship was doing its full 32 knots, the exploding shells, bombs, anti-aircraft. It was absolute pandemonium.
However, to comment on my feelings at that time, first of all when it all started, there was one of fright.
Certainly one of fright. And then suddenly it becomes one of excitement. And then suddenly one of aggression because you realize well it's either him or it's me.
And it's one of fun game. You're either going to live or you're going to die. So you have to make every endeavor to survive.
That is a feeling I should probably never have again, never particularly want to, but it's quite an experience really.
Anyway, we survived that unscathed and eventually, not very long actually, sailed into Malta harbor and tied up. I think that will be sufficient for this episode.